Post for NathanCooksSingsDances


It's been an exciting holiday season. We traveled to the West Coast to visit family, and nearly everyone got sick with something. I was in bed for ~3-4 days after Christmas. During some of that time, I audio-read [The Martian](), a recent "hard" sci-fi book about which I've many good things. It's the author's first published book -- I hope he can keep up the quality in future work, because it's a great read.

Without giving too much away, The Martian is a story about tenacious, persistent attempts at survival in a most inhospitable environment. An astronaut is accidentally left on the surface of Mars during an aborted Ares mission. Presumed dead, he must jury-rig everything he can to buy a few more days, weeks, and months until he can contact civilization again. The clock is always ticking -- our adventurer is constantly aware of his ever-approaching "extinction horizon," when food, or water, or power will run out and he must fold to the harsh elements. Along the way, the observer is exposed to the extensive calculations continually required to push the envelope. Impressively, hardly any of the calculations are "mumbo-jumbo" -- from my vague memory of mechanical and electrical engineering days, everything discussed seemed extremely plausible.

This is one of the best examples of hard science fiction I've encountered. The parade of numbers isn't boring, but rather energizing -- the Martian puts human ingenuity on display at a fast pace. That's really the central "hero" of the story -- the idea that human ingenuity is capable to achieving a tremendous amount.

Looking for reviews and discussion of The Martian lead me to this article: "...," which in turn slowly reawakened meories and goals of my younger self. A long time ago, in highschool and college, I was a big fan of "being prepared" and wilderness survival. I always enjoyed the ability to make ones way in the wilderness, or jury-rigging things to accomplish goals. I also greatly enjoyed the tales of "young invetors" of old -- Ben Franklin, Nathan ________, _________ ___________.

There exists a modern "preppers" movement, but I've always only touched on the outskirts of such groups. There can be a tendency towards consiracy and paranoia in some of these groups, which I didn't feel made for a healthy mindset. However with this newest generation of "preparation / survival advocates" tends to be a bit more ... practical. It's very nice to see this -- I think there are reasonably important "what if" questions that we should ask as a society, but the Qs need to be asked in a reasonable way. These folks are approaching this with what I consider to be a reasonable midset and attitude. 
